# Shock_Tube
A Shock Tube is a hollow circular or rectangular pipe-like structure which contains very high pressure on one end and low pressure on another end which are separated by a diaphragm. This diaphragm eventually bursts, and high-pressure gas waves move towards low-pressure gas and compress it. These waves can be supersonic or subsonic according to the pressure difference. These waves can be used to study the interaction of shock waves with various objects.


A shock tube is a Geometrically simple device that helps to analyze the compressible flow. It can be rectangular or circular in nature which separates the high-pressure gas and low-pressure gas with expandable walls(diaphragm) which is suddenly burst by some mechanical or explosives so that high-pressure gas produces shock wave to propagate towards the low-pressure gas region, also rarefaction wave is generated which moves towards high-pressure gas. We can replicate the high Mach aerodynamics condition to study the flow in a controlled manner. Due to its simple geometry, we can use shock tubes for many purposes in which we have to measure the flow of fast-moving gases over objects. It is used in High enthalpy shock tunnels. As the wave propagates from the high-pressure region the gas is called driver gas and lowpressure gas is called driven gas. The high-pressure gas is generally selected such that it has low molecular weight because for safety purposes (e.g. Helium, Hydrogen). This high-pressure gas produces a series of pressure waves that compresses the low-pressure gas.
